International Address Input pattern page (#2257)
jpmorganchase/salt-ds: site/docs/patterns/international-address-input.mdx

---
title: International Address Input
layout: DetailPattern
sidebar:
  label: International Address Input
aliases:
  - /salt/patterns/international-address-input
---

International Address Input is a pattern that gives users a set of form fields to input address information for specific countries.

## Pattern scope

The pattern is a form that displays relevant fields for a user-selected location. You can use this pattern to provide a consistent look and feel when implementing International Address Input interactions across your applications. Future versions of the pattern will cover use of APIs, use of autocompletion, and enhanced support for more locations.

The pattern aims to accommodate users worldwide, but your team may be able to take further steps that fall outside the scope of this pattern. For example, check with your tech partners if it is possible to detect user location and automatically adjust the form.

## When to use it

Use the pattern when your user needs to enter an address for a specific country. This could be for shipping, contact, legal or compliance purposes, such as for a client onboarding flow or client detail collection process.

## Pattern content

> The pattern consists of Salt Form Field components (for layout guidance, please refer to the [Forms pattern](./forms)). It comprises two formats: Dynamic and Generic.

Reviewer: "Form Field" is a specific component, needs update. 
Something like "various form controls"

Author: asked in the Figma

### Dynamic format

Dynamic format generates templates based on country or region. The templates only display fields that are relevant to a specific country, in a recognizable order, and with familiar labels.

For the initial release, Dynamic format supports five countries: France, Germany, Spain, the United Kingdom and the United States.

We recommend using templates in Dynamic format with localized language and terms that are more familiar to the user. This will reduce barriers to input and minimize user errors.

<ImageSwitcher
  images={[
    {
      src: "/img/patterns/international-address-input/select_country.png",
      alt: "Example showing a Select country dropdown",
    },
    {
      src: "/img/patterns/international-address-input/select_united_states.png",
      alt: "Example showing Dynamic template with United States selected",
    },
  ]}
  label="Select United States"
/>

<Diagrams>
  <Diagram

>     src="/img/patterns/international-address-input/dynamic_france.png"

Reviewer: These images doesn't feel high res on Mac. Try 2x export in Figma.

Author: 2x makes them bigger in the site but the same not-high-res quality. These are the same quality as the existing Forms Pattern page, but I can look into other ways to improve this.

    contentPosition="top"
    border
  >
    #### France
  </Diagram>
  <Diagram
    src="/img/patterns/international-address-input/dynamic_germany.png"
    alt="Example showing Dynamic template with Germany selected"
    contentPosition="top"
    border
  >
    #### Germany
  </Diagram>
  <Diagram
    src="/img/patterns/international-address-input/dynamic_spain.png"
    alt="Example showing Dynamic template with Spain selected"
    contentPosition="top"
    border
  >
    #### Spain
  </Diagram>
  <Diagram
    src="/img/patterns/international-address-input/dynamic_united_kingdom.png"
    alt="Example showing Dynamic template with United Kingdom selected"
    contentPosition="top"
    border
  >
    #### United Kingdom
  </Diagram>
</Diagrams>

### Generic format

Generic format provides a single template of international address input for all countries and regions.

Sometimes, using templates may be difficult due to requirements or product scope. In these cases, use Generic format.

<Diagram
  src="/img/patterns/international-address-input/generic_format.png"
  alt="Example showing Generic format"
  border
/>

<ExampleContainer type="positive" customPillText="Best practices">

>   - Choose the format that best fits the technical capabilities of your app,
>   delivery timescales, and required locations. 
>   - Combine Dynamic format and Generic format if users will input international addresses across the world. You can provide templates using both Generic and Dynamic formats. 

Author: ```suggestion
  - Choose the format that best fits the technical capabilities of your app, delivery timescales and required locations. 
  - Combine Dynamic format and Generic format if users will input international addresses worldwide. You can provide templates using both Generic and Dynamic formats. 
```

  alt="Example showing additional address input"
  border
/>

## Customized Address Forms

In some cases, you need to customize the address form while considering other information you're collecting based on the product scope.

- An additional form e.g., House No., may be needed.
- You can use the address form alongside international phone number, email address, banking details, time zone selection and other fields.

<Diagram
  src="/img/patterns/international-address-input/customized_address_form.png"
  alt="Example showing a customized address form"
  border
/>

## Toggling the local language

You can add a switch to toggle localization after the country selection, enabling users to compare the form with another address or data source.

<Diagrams>
  <Diagram
    src="/img/patterns/international-address-input/toggle_language_1.png"
    alt="Example showing a form with a show local language toggle off"
    border
  />
  <Diagram
    src="/img/patterns/international-address-input/toggle_language_2.png"
    alt="Example showing a form with a show local language toggle on"
    border
  />
</Diagrams>

## Expanding the pattern

> If you find a need to expand the pattern, for example to have localized Dynamic templates for more countries or regions, please [reach out to the team](/salt/support-and-contributions/index) to discuss.

Author: ```suggestion
If you need to expand the pattern, for example, to have localized Dynamic templates for more countries or regions, please [reach out to the team](/salt/support-and-contributions/index) to discuss.
```

---
title: International Address Input
layout: DetailPattern
sidebar:
  label: International Address Input
aliases:

>   - /salt/patterns/international-address-input

Author: Need resources

Reviewer: Release without resource link. However, "International Address Input resources" is stretching page horizontally over 100%, need fix

</ExampleContainer>

## Adding an additional address

There may be cases where an additional address form is needed:

- The client address may be different to the business address. We recommend a checkbox after the first form for the user to select if they need the additional form.
- In some countries, such as China, users are required to input the address twice: once in English and then in Chinese. Add an additional form in the local language.

<Diagram
  src="/img/patterns/international-address-pattern/additional_address.png"
  alt="Example showing additional address input"
  border
/>

## Customized Address Forms

There may be cases where you need to customize the address form considering other information you are collecting based on the product scope.

- An additional form e.g. House No. may be needed.
- The address form can be used alongside international phone number, email address, banking details, time zone selection, and other fields.

<Diagram
  src="/img/patterns/international-address-pattern/customized_address_form.png"
  alt="Example showing a customized address form"
  border
/>

## Toggling the local language

> You can add a switch to toggle localization after the country selection to enable users to compare the form with another address or data source.

Author: thank you for reviewing + making suggestions!

<Diagrams>
  <Diagram
    src="/img/patterns/international-address-input/toggle_language_1.png"
    alt="Example showing a form with a show local language toggle off"
    border
  />
  <Diagram
    src="/img/patterns/international-address-input/toggle_language_2.png"
    alt="Example showing a form with a show local language toggle on"
    border
  />
</Diagrams>

## Expanding the pattern

> If you find a need to expand the pattern, for example to have localized Dynamic templates for more countries or regions, please reach out to the team to discuss.

Author: need "reach out" link

Reviewer: Link in Figma points to support page? https://www.saltdesignsystem.com/salt/support-and-contributions/index
